README.md, before:

# **COGS 189 - BCI Project**  

This repository contains the code for our **COGS 189 Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) experiment**, where we map **action-based EEG signals and SSVEP** to real-time cursor control.  

### **Project Structure**  
- **`online` branch**: Handles real-time BCI implementation and cursor control mapping.  
- **`offline` branch**: Focuses on EEG signal preprocessing, transformation, and classification.  

### **Getting Started**  
1. Clone the repository:  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/NeuraByte-UCSD-ITS/cogs189.git
   ```
2. Switch to the relevant branch:  
   ```bash
   git checkout online   # or git checkout offline
   ```

### **Contributing**  
1. Make changes and push to your branch:  
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your commit message"
   git push origin branch-name
   ```
2. Submit a pull request on GitHub to merge into `main`.  
3. Keep documentation updated for reproducibility.  

### **Team Members**  

| Name                  | PID        | Email             | Discord            | GitHub Username |
|-----------------------|-----------|-------------------|--------------------|-----------------|
| **Edwin Ruiz**        | A17136339 | e1ruiz@ucsd.edu   | ucsd_its_neuro     | NeuraByte-UCSD-ITS |
| **Vishal Patel**      | v7patel    | v7patel@ucsd.edu  | vishalp            | vip11017 |
| **Dante Testini**     | A16772108 | dtestini@ucsd.edu | dante.___          | Dante-t0 |
| **Nancy Shen**        | A17006379 | nshen@ucsd.edu    | nyzll              | nancyshenn |
| **Sarah R. Bulatao**  | A17239438 | sbulatao@ucsd.edu | 3ffulgentx#4449    | sbulatao |
| **Andy Huang**        | A17391626 | anh031@ucsd.edu   | nub6234            | anh1231 |

### **Project Resources**  

📄 **Team Documents (Proposal, Contract, Research Notes)**  
[**Google Docs - COGS 189 Team Documents**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kmoATubGGtCyLEcY0Lt7Y57b31m-O8rysbtMINhthrM/edit?usp=sharing)  

🌐 **Project Website (Introduction, Methods, Results)**  
[**Google Sites - COGS 189 BCI Project**](https://sites.google.com/d/1s-25WKa0uhgr7BEy_yGSoqZ5aTbzqCl3/p/1npJnzpZkbIYuBNoyv4HmWuREFpSlRTLe/edit?pli=1&authuser=2)

Commit message:

updating README for latest changes

README.md, after:

# **COGS 189 - BCI Project**  

This repository contains the code for our **COGS 189 Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) experiment**, where we map **action-based EEG signals and SSVEP** to real-time cursor control.  

### **Project Structure**  
- **`online` branch**: Handles real-time BCI implementation and cursor control mapping.  
- **`offline` branch**: Focuses on EEG signal preprocessing, transformation, and classification.  

### **Getting Started**  
1. Clone the repository:  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/NeuraByte-UCSD-ITS/cogs189.git
   ```
2. Switch to the relevant branch:  
   ```bash
   git checkout online   # or git checkout offline
   ```
3. Stay updated with the latest changes:  
   ```bash
   git pull origin branch-name  # Replace 'branch-name' with online/offline/main
   ```

### **Contributing**  
1. Make changes and push to your branch:  
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your commit message"
   git push origin branch-name
   ```
2. Submit a pull request on GitHub to merge into `main`.  
3. Keep documentation updated for reproducibility.  

### **Team Members**  

| Name                  | PID        | Email             | Discord            | GitHub Username |
|-----------------------|-----------|-------------------|--------------------|-----------------|
| **Edwin Ruiz**        | A17136339 | e1ruiz@ucsd.edu   | ucsd_its_neuro     | NeuraByte-UCSD-ITS |
| **Vishal Patel**      | v7patel    | v7patel@ucsd.edu  | vishalp            | vip11017 |
| **Dante Testini**     | A16772108 | dtestini@ucsd.edu | dante.___          | Dante-t0 |
| **Nancy Shen**        | A17006379 | nshen@ucsd.edu    | nyzll              | nancyshenn |
| **Sarah R. Bulatao**  | A17239438 | sbulatao@ucsd.edu | 3ffulgentx#4449    | sbulatao |
| **Andy Huang**        | A17391626 | anh031@ucsd.edu   | nub6234            | anh1231 |

### **Project Resources**  

📄 **Team Documents (Proposal, Contract, Research Notes)**  
[**Google Docs - COGS 189 Team Documents**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kmoATubGGtCyLEcY0Lt7Y57b31m-O8rysbtMINhthrM/edit?usp=sharing)  

🌐 **Project Website (Introduction, Methods, Results)**  
[**Google Sites - COGS 189 BCI Project**](https://sites.google.com/d/1s-25WKa0uhgr7BEy_yGSoqZ5aTbzqCl3/p/1npJnzpZkbIYuBNoyv4HmWuREFpSlRTLe/edit?pli=1&authuser=2)
